https://zenodo.org/record/3241984#.YSW8U1tlDRY

Bujan, Nans, Cox, Ronadh, & Masselink, Gerd. (2018). From fine sand to boulders: examining the relationship between beach-face slope and sediment size. Dataset and references. [Data set]. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3241984

Nans Bujan, Rónadh Cox, Gerd Masselink,
From fine sand to boulders: Examining the relationship between beach-face slope and sediment size,
Marine Geology,
Volume 417,
2019,
106012,
ISSN 0025-3227,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.margeo.2019.106012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0025322718304365)
Abstract: It is a long-standing maxim that coarser sediment sizes are associated with steeper beach-face slopes; but because most work has focused on sandy beaches, few data are available for the pebble, cobble, or boulder size ranges. Little is known, therefore, about how beach morphology and grain size relate at the coarser size grades. We compiled data from the literature—2144 measurements of beach-face slope with associated grain sizes— covering the range from very fine sand to boulders. This meta-analysis shows that beach faces do tend to steepen as average grain size increases, at least up to the cobble size range; but the trend is not simple. Although previous studies suggested a simple power-law relationship between grain size and beach-face slope, in fact the data distribution is best fit by a curve that is steep at the finer grain sizes but is much more gentle as grain size coarsens (and may trend downward for boulders). Fine and medium sands have the greatest range of reported slopes and the data support the importance of effective-weight modification and boundary layer dynamics as primary controls on beach-face steepness at these fine size grades. Around the very coarse sand size grade, a plateau marks a shift in beach dynamics: as hydraulic conductivity increases, beaches switch to being infiltration-dominated. The trend toward steeper slopes continues, but at a lower and steady rate, from granules through cobbles. There appears to be a falloff in slope for the coarsest boulder deposits (but we note that this is based on very few locations, so should be considered preliminary). The overall data distribution is described by a power-law function: tanβ=a(D50−0.125)b+c. The broadness of each transition zone also shows that a range of factors, other than grain size, governs where that tipping point occurs. In the cobble and boulder size ranges there are two deposit categories: boulder beaches, and supratidal boulder ridges. Although not commonly thought of as beaches, boulder ridges record long-term storm deposition and reworking on the highest energy coasts. Supratidal ridges and boulder beaches seem to show different slope/grain-size relationships, with the steepest slopes occurring in boulder ridges, and with boulder beaches showing more gentle gradients than other coarse clastic beaches; but our data set reveals how little quantitative information exists about the coarsest end of the beach spectrum, and invites further work to investigate the sedimentology of cobble- and boulder-dominated systems.
Keywords: Beach morphology; Gravel; Swash; Boulder ridges; Grain size; Beach-face slope
